Identity

Logo Elements
The City of Oakland is identified by a combination of the green bar, the iconic oak tree and the City of Oakland wordmark.

The Tree
The Oakland oak tree symbol is beloved and benefits from excellent recognition. As part of this exercise, the tree was redrawn to improve its legibility and technical reproduction potential, while maintaining its character and authenticity.Logo Construction and Proportions
Using the simple markers of the tree height and trunk width, a set of proportions was created to guide ideal spacing of elements.The tree height unit is used to define a set proportion of three thirds, where the middle one and the other two are the margins.The trunk width is used as one half of the horizontal spacing between elements.

Logo Minimum size
To ensure legibility, never size the logo smaller than these widths.

Logo Colors
The preferred treatment is the two-color version in either white or black (depending on the context).When design or production constraints limit the colors available, a one-color version can be used, in either black, white or green.

Logo Translation
Given the diversity of Oakland’s population, our logos have been crafted to work in many of the languages our community speaks.

Identity System
Signatures have been created for all key city departments. They come in two layout versions, for bottom or top anchoring. The Bottom-anchoring marks should be used as the default.

Vertical Responsiveness
Depending on the needs and space available, the signature system can adapt from its ideal state to a more horizontally compact state, as long as the tree height bottom margin is maintained.

Logo Anchoring
Oakland is where so many families and communities have put down roots. We use the logo and its green vertical rule to anchor layout elements, placing them either at the top or bottom of each piece or containing shape.


Logo Don’ts
The logo has been crafted with care and with the various constraints of its use in mind. Consistency in how we project ourselves is key in building trust with our community.Always use provided artwork, and reach out to Communications with any question on its usage that’s not covered here. 




Typography

Fakt
Highly functional, Fakt is the typeface of the City of Oakland’s visual identity. It is a full family designed by Thomas Thiemich in 2010.Clear, efficient and sensible, it aspires to communication that is engaging but to the point, and lets the content shine, all while providing the required gravitas of official communication.



Visual Elements

Graphic Patterns
An evocation of the tightly woven, dynamic and growing Oakland community, our graphic pattern leverages the organic language of the tree into a visual element that can be applied to virtually anything, enhancing our ability to brand material without having to always rely on the logo.

Photography
Bright saturated photography, reflects the dynamic, energetic community of the City of Oakland. Focusing on the community, cultures and local businesses, the photography portrays the energy and excitement of being apart of the City of Oakland. The bright nature of the photography inspires color palette and graphic system.  


Examples

Letterhead and Business Cards
Those simple piece of everyday communication can convey trust through the consistent use of our visual identity.

Brochures
Material which is more public, leverages the typography, color and photography clearly communicating the nature of the City of Oakland and is constant with the visual identity.

Official Vehicles
Throughout the City of Oakland, official vehicles need to be distinctive and noticeable. Applying the graphic pattern as a reflective decal enhances the visual identity. The logo and department name will also be noticeable.

Signage
Park signs, way finding systems and construction notice’s are clear and functional pieces of communication, which relies on confident typographic and color treatments. 






